README.md, before:

# Devcontainer

We provide a devcontainer for developing the Ethercat EPICS module. See the section below for instructions on how to use the devcontainer. Alternatively, you can set up the environment locally See the section at the bottom of this README for instructions on how to set up the environment locally.

## Using the Devcontainer
For the first time, open the folder in VSCode and click on the green button at the bottom left corner of the window. 

Open the folder in the container.

This will build the container and open a new window in the container.

### Building the container
Depending on what you have been working on, you may need to rebuild the applications.
In a new terminal, run the following commands to build the applications:


```bash
cd /workspaces/ethercat
make

```

```bash
cd /workspaces/ethercat/iocs/scanTest
make

```
Updating the scanner.xml
```bash
cd /workspaces/ethercat/iocs/scanTest/etc
../../bin/linux-x86_64/slaveinfo -m 0 > scanner.xml
```



### Starting the scanner
In a new terminal, run the following commands to start the scanner:

```bash
cd /workspaces/ethercat/iocs/scanTest
../../bin/linux-x86_64/scanner -m 0 etc/scanner.xml /tmp/socket0

```
### Starting the IOC
In a new terminal, run the following commands to start the IOC:

```bash
cd /workspaces/ethercat/iocs/scanTest
./st.cmd

```



# Advanced: Setting up the environment locally, not using the .devcontainer or docker

## Epics
Pre-requisites Ubuntu 22.04

```bash
sudo apt-get install -y wget autoconf libtool check patch build-essential libreadline-dev re2c libxml2-dev tmux software-properties-common python3-libxml2 python3
```

```
wget https://epics-controls.org/download/base/base-7.0.8.tar.gz
```

## Asyn

```bash
cd /epics
mkdir support
cd support

wget https://github.com/epics-modules/asyn/archive/refs/tags/R4-44-2.tar.gz
tar -xvf R4-44-2.tar.gz
cd asyn-R4-44-2/
```
edit RELEASE and set epics base

```bash
EPICS_BASE=/epics/base
```
on ubuntu set TIRPC =YES, edit CONFIG_SITE:

```bash
TIRPC=YES
```

## Ethercat


EPICS support to read/write to ethercat based hardware

Prerequisites: [IgH EtherCAT Master for Linux](http://etherlab.org/en/ethercat/index.php)

This EPICS module builds with a patched version of etherlab, described in the file etc/makeDocumentation/building.src

The documentation was made when doxygen at DLS would build in the
folder etc/makeDocumentation.

The doxygen documentation is no longer building at Diamond, but the "sources" are in
the folder etc/makeDocumentation.

Release notes in
etc/makeDocumentation/release_notes.src

Please email with issues as the maintainer has been know to ignore
github notifications for months.

Maintainer notes

Before making a release:

1. Check/update the version in ethercatApp/scannerSrc/version.h
2. Write release notes in etc/makeDocumentation/release_notes.src

Commit message:

Add devcontainer and docker-compose file for easier development and deployment

README.md, after:

This is a fork of the original Ethercat EPICS module. It has been modified to work with the latest version of EPICS base 7.0.8 and the latest version of asyn 4-44-2. The original module was developed by Diamond Light Source and the original repository can be found at https://github.com/dls-controls/ethercat

We have also added a devcontainer for developing the module. This is a docker container that has all the necessary dependencies installed. This makes it easier to set up the environment for developing the module. 

We have also added a docker-compose file that can be used to run the scanner and IOC in separate containers. This is useful for running the system in a docker environment.

# Instructions
Firstly, clone the repository.

## Development
On a linux machine you use the devcontainer to develop the module. See the section below for instructions on how to use the devcontainer. The only pre-requisite is that you have docker installed on your machine. We also advise that you have the Remote - Containers extension installed in VSCode. This will make it easier to use the devcontainer.

Note whe using the devcontainer, it will mount the repository as a volume in the container. This means that any changes you make in the container will be reflected in the local repository and vice versa.

Or you can set up the environment locally. See the section at the bottom of this README for instructions on how to set up the environment locally.

During development, you can build the applications manually. You will also need to update the scanner.xml file. See the section below for instructions on how to build the applications and update the scanner.xml file. Finally you will also start the ethercat master, the scanner and the IOC.

## Production
For production, you can use the docker-compose file to run the scanner and IOC in separate containers. This is useful for running the system in a docker environment. See the section below for instructions on how to run the scanner and IOC in separate containers.

Alternatively, you can run the scanner and IOC manually. See the sections below for instructions on how to run the scanner and IOC manually.


# Devcontainer

We provide a devcontainer for developing the Ethercat EPICS module. See the section below for instructions on how to use the devcontainer. Alternatively, you can set up the environment locally See the section at the bottom of this README for instructions on how to set up the environment locally.

## Using the Devcontainer
For the first time, open the folder in VSCode and click on the green button at the bottom left corner of the window. 

Open the folder in the container.

This will build the container and open a new window in the container.

### Building the container
Depending on what you have been working on, you may need to rebuild the applications.
In a new terminal, run the following commands to build the applications:


```bash
cd /workspaces/ethercat
make

```

```bash
cd /workspaces/ethercat/iocs/scanTest
make

```
Updating the scanner.xml
```bash
cd /workspaces/ethercat/iocs/scanTest/etc
../../bin/linux-x86_64/slaveinfo -m 0 > scanner.xml
```



### Starting the scanner
In a new terminal, run the following commands to start the scanner:

```bash
cd /workspaces/ethercat/iocs/scanTest
../../bin/linux-x86_64/scanner -m 0 etc/scanner.xml /tmp/socket0

```
### Starting the IOC
In a new terminal, run the following commands to start the IOC:

```bash
cd /workspaces/ethercat/iocs/scanTest
./st.cmd

```



# Advanced: Setting up the environment locally, not using the .devcontainer or docker

## Epics
Pre-requisites Ubuntu 22.04

```bash
sudo apt-get install -y wget autoconf libtool check patch build-essential libreadline-dev re2c libxml2-dev tmux software-properties-common python3-libxml2 python3
```

```
wget https://epics-controls.org/download/base/base-7.0.8.tar.gz
```

## Asyn

```bash
cd /epics
mkdir support
cd support

wget https://github.com/epics-modules/asyn/archive/refs/tags/R4-44-2.tar.gz
tar -xvf R4-44-2.tar.gz
cd asyn-R4-44-2/
```
edit RELEASE and set epics base

```bash
EPICS_BASE=/epics/base
```
on ubuntu set TIRPC =YES, edit CONFIG_SITE:

```bash
TIRPC=YES
```

## Ethercat


EPICS support to read/write to ethercat based hardware

Prerequisites: [IgH EtherCAT Master for Linux](http://etherlab.org/en/ethercat/index.php)

This EPICS module builds with a patched version of etherlab, described in the file etc/makeDocumentation/building.src

The documentation was made when doxygen at DLS would build in the
folder etc/makeDocumentation.

The doxygen documentation is no longer building at Diamond, but the "sources" are in
the folder etc/makeDocumentation.

Release notes in
etc/makeDocumentation/release_notes.src

Please email with issues as the maintainer has been know to ignore
github notifications for months.

Maintainer notes

Before making a release:

1. Check/update the version in ethercatApp/scannerSrc/version.h
2. Write release notes in etc/makeDocumentation/release_notes.src
